Create rule S7130:  `First`/`Single` should be used instead of `FirstOrDefault`/`SingleOrDefault` on collections that are known to be not empty (#4432)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S7130/csharp/rule.adoc

== Why is this an issue?

Using `FirstOrDefault` or `SingleOrDefault` on collections that are known to be non-empty is an issue due to:

* Code Clarity and intent: When you use `FirstOrDefault` or `SingleOrDefault`, it implies that the collection might be empty, which can be misleading if you know it is not. It can be confusing for other developers who read your code, making it harder for them to understand the actual constraints and behavior of the collection. This leads to confusion and harder-to-maintain code.

* Error handling: If the developer's intention is for the collection not to be empty, then if it's empty, `FirstOrDefault` and `SingleOrDefault` won't fail and will return a default value (`null` for reference types and `default` for value types) that will cause a bug later on instead of failing at the element retrieval from the collection.

>  This can lead to subtle bugs if the default value is not handled appropriately. For example, you might inadvertently introduce a `NullReferenceException` later in your code if you assume the result is never null or assume that a value-type default value is an actual value of an element when it's the result of an empty collection. Using `First` or `Single` will throw an `InvalidOperationException` immediately if the collection does not meet the expected conditions, making it easier to detect and fix issues early in the development process.

Reviewer: I think you forgot to remove the empty lines here.

> * Error handling: If the developer's intention is for the collection not to be empty, then if it's empty, `FirstOrDefault` and `SingleOrDefault` won't fail and will return a default value (`null` for reference types and `default` for value types) that will cause a bug later on instead of failing at the element retrieval from the collection.
> 
> 
>  This can lead to subtle bugs if the default value is not handled appropriately. For example, you might inadvertently introduce a `NullReferenceException` later in your code if you assume the result is never null or assume that a value-type default value is an actual value of an element when it's the result of an empty collection. Using `First` or `Single` will throw an `InvalidOperationException` immediately if the collection does not meet the expected conditions, making it easier to detect and fix issues early in the development process.

Reviewer: The is a bit long IMO.
Here ChatGPT suggestion:
```suggestion
* Error handling: If the developer intends for the collection not to be empty, using `FirstOrDefault` and `SingleOrDefault` can lead to subtle bugs. These methods return a default value (`null` for reference types and `default` for value types) when the collection is empty, potentially causing issues like `NullReferenceException` later in the code. In contrast, `First` or `Single` will throw an `InvalidOperationException` immediately if the collection is empty, making it easier to detect and address issues early in the development process.
```

=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,csharp,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
var items = new List<int> { 1, 2, 3 };

int firstItem = items.FirstOrDefault(); // Noncompliant, this implies the collection might be empty, when we know it is not
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,csharp,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
var items = new List<int> { 1, 2, 3 };

int firstItem = items.First(); // Compliant
----

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
